 
Treasure Island
 
ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON 
 
Level 2 
 
Retold by Ann Ward 
Series Editors: Andy Hopkins and Jocelyn Potter Pearson Education Limited 
Edinburgh Gate, Harlow, 
Essex CM20 2JE, England 
and Associated Companies throughout the world. 
 
ISBN 0 582 46828 0 
 
Treasure Island first published in 1883 
This adaptation first published by Penguin Books 1995 
Published by Addison Wesley Longman Limited and Penguin Books Ltd 1998 
This edition first published 2000 
 
 
 
Text copyright © Ann Ward 1995 
Illustrations copyright © Victor Ambrus 1995 
All rights reserved 
 
The moral right of the adapter and illustrator has been asserted 
 
Typeset by Digital Type, London 
Set in 12/14pt Bembo 
Printed in Spain by Mateu Cromo, S.A. Pinto (Madrid) 
 
 
All rights reserved; no part of this publication may be reproduced, stored 
in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, 
electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise, without the 
prior written permission of the Publishers. 
 
Published by Pearson Education Limited in association with 
Penguin Books Ltd, both companies being subsidiaries of  Pearson Plc 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a complete list of titles available in the Penguin Readers series, please write to your    
local Pearson Education office or to: Marketing Department, Penguin Longman Publishing, 
5 Bentinck Street, London W1M 5RN. 
  
Contents 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                 page 
Introduction  v
 
Chapter 1      Jim Hawkins’ Story I  1
 
Chapter 2      Dr Livesey’s Story   18
 
Chapter 3      Jim’s Story II   22
 
Activities   35
 Introduction 
 
 
‘Tomorrow I’m going to Bristol,’ said Mr Trelawney. ‘I’m going 
to buy a ship and find sailors. Jim, you and Dr Livesey are going to 
come with me to look for the treasure!’ 
 
Jim Hawkins works in his father’s inn by the sea. One day an old 
sailor comes to stay. He watches the sea and the ships. He is ill. 
He is afraid. But what - or who - is he afraid of? 
Very soon Jim understands, because the old man has a map. A 
lot of people are interested in that map - and some of them are 
very dangerous people. Jim Hawkins is going to meet them when 
he sails in the Hispaniola to Treasure Island. It will be a journey 
with many difficulties . . . 
 
Robert Louis Stevenson was born in 1850 in Edinburgh, Scot-
land and began writing when he was a boy. He finished his first 
book when he was sixteen. 
He went to many different countries in his life. He was often 
dangerously ill and he wanted to find a place with warm weather 
where he could live and do his writing. In 1888, he went by ship 
to the Pacific islands, and after 1890 he lived on the island of 
Samoa, with his wife, mother and son. The Samoans called him 
‘Tusitala’ - ‘the story-teller’. 
He  wrote  many  different  books  and  stories.  Treasure  Island 
(1883)  is  his  most  famous  book  but  Dr  Jekyll  and  Mr  Hyde 
(1886)  is  also  very  well-known.  Stevenson  died  in  1894  on 
Samoa. 
 
 
 
 
v Chapter 1   Jim Hawkins’ Story I 
 
My father had an inn near the sea. It was a quiet place. One day, 
an old man came to our door. He was tall and strong, and his face 
was brown. His old blue coat was dirty and he had a big old box 
with him. He looked at the inn, then he looked at the sea. 
     My father came to the door. 
 At first the old man did not speak. He looked again at the sea, 
and at the front of the inn. 
 ‘I like this place,’ he said. ‘Do many people come here?’ 
‘No,’ said my father. 
‘I’m going to stay here,’ said the old man. ‘I want a bed and 
food.  I  like  watching  the  sea  and  the  ships.  You  can  call  me 
Captain.’ 
He threw some money on the table. ‘That’s for my bed and my 
food,’ he said. 
And so the old captain came to stay with us. He was always 
quiet. In the evenings he sat in the inn and in the day he watched 
the sea and the ships. 
One day he spoke to me. ‘Come here, boy,’ he said, and he 
gave me some money. ‘Take this, and look out for a sailor with         
one leg.’ 
He was afraid of that sailor with one leg. I was afraid too. I 
looked for the man with one leg, but I never saw him. 
Then winter came, and it was very cold. My father was ill, and 
my mother and I worked very hard. 
Early one January morning, the captain went to the beach. I 
helped  my  mother  to  make  the  captain’s  breakfast.  The  door 
opened and a man came in. His face was very white and he had 
only three ringers  on  his  left  hand.  I could see that he was a sailor. 
 ‘Can I help you?’ I asked. 
 
 
1  
The man looked at the captain's breakfast table.    
'Is this table for my friend Bill?' The man looked at the captain’s breakfast table.                      
‘Is this table for my friend Bill?’ he asked.                                    
‘I  don’t know your friend Bill,’ I said. ‘It’s the captain’s table.’    
‘The captain?’  he said.  ‘Well,  they  sometimes  call my friend 
Bill the Captain. Is he here in the house?’                                      
‘No. He’s out,’ I said. 
The man sat down and waited for the captain. Then the captain 
came into the room. He went to his table and sat down. 
‘Bill!’ said the man. 
The  captain  turned  round  quickly.  His  face  went  white. 
Suddenly, he looked old and ill. 
‘Come, Bill, you know me. You know an old friend, Bill,’ said 
the man. 
‘Black Dog!’ said the captain. 
‘Yes,’ said the man. ‘It’s me, Black Dog. I wanted to see my 
old friend Billy.’                 
‘Well, here I am,’ said the captain. ‘What do you want?’ 
‘I want to talk to you, Bill,’ Black Dog said. 
The captain looked at me. ‘Leave the room, boy,’ he said, ‘and 
don’t listen at the door.’ 
They talked for a long time. Then I heard them talking angrily. 
‘No, no, no!’ said the captain. There was a fight and then Black 
Dog ran out of the house. 
The captain’s  face  was white. ‘I must get out of here!’ he said. 
I ran to get him a drink. I came back and found the captain on 
the floor. His eyes were closed. 
Our doctor, Dr Livesey, came and looked at the old captain. 
‘He’s very ill,’ said the doctor. 
The captain opened his eyes and looked at the doctor. ‘Where’s 
Black Dog?’ he asked.  
‘There’s  no  Black  Dog  here,’  said  the  doctor.  ‘Now,  Billy 
Bones, you must. . .’ 
 
 
3 ‘Billy  Bones?’    said  the    captain.    ‘My    name’s    not    Billy 
Bones.’ 
‘Oh?’   said  the  doctor.  ‘Oh,  yes.  It’s  the  name  of  a  famous 
pirate.’ 
We put the old captain in his bed. ‘He must stay in his bed for a 
week,’ said the doctor. ‘He’s very ill.’ 
 
♦ 
 
At twelve o’clock I went to see the captain in his room. 
‘What did the doctor say?’ he asked.                                                   
‘You must stay in bed for a week,’ I told him. 
‘Too  late!’  he  said.  ‘You  remember  Black  Dog.  He’s  a  bad 
man,  but there are worse men than Black Dog. They want my old 
box.  You must look out for sailors. You must look out for Flint’s 
men.’ 
Then the captain closed his eyes. 
But I didn’t look out for sailors, because my father died that 
night. I was too sad to think about the captain. 
A week later, the captain came down and sat in his usual chair. 
I went outside the inn and looked up and down the road. I saw 
another  man  on  the.  road.  He  wore  a  long  black  coat  and  he 
walked very slowly. 
‘He can’t see,’ I thought. 
The man arrived in front of the inn and turned his face to me.  
‘Can you tell me, please, where I am?’ I told him. He listened 
carefully; 
‘You’re young,’ he said. ‘Take my hand, my young friend, and 
take me inside.’ 
He took my hand, He was very strong.           
‘Now  my  young  friend,’  he  said,  ‘take  me  to  the  captain. 
Quickly! I can break your arm.’ 
When the captain saw the man, he did not move. The man put 
something into the captain’s hand and then left the inn. 
 
4  
 
‘Now my young friend,’ he said, ‘take me to the captain. Quickly! 
I can break your arm.’ 
 
 
The captain looked at the black paper in his hand. Then he read 
the words on it. 
‘Ten o’clock! They’re coming at ten o’clock,’ he said. ‘We’ve 
got six hours!’ He tried to stand up, but he was too ill. 
I ran for my mother, but it was too late. When we came back 
the captain was dead on the floor. 
♦ 
 
My mother and I went to the village, but the people there did 
not want to help us. They were too afraid. Our friend the doctor 
was away. Nobody could help us. 
 
 
5 ‘I must get my money from the captain’s box,’ my mother said. 
‘It’s our  money.’         
We opened the box. There were some old coats and shirts and a 
bag of money. My mother began to take the money. 
‘Quickly!’ I said. ‘It’s nearly ten o’clock.’ 
It was a cold night, and very quiet. Suddenly, I heard a sound 
on  the  road.  Then  I  heard  someone  stop  outside  the  inn.  We 
waited, but then everything was quiet again. Nothing moved. 
‘Quickly, mother!’ I said. ‘Take all the captain’s money.’ 
‘No,’ she said. ‘I don’t want it all.’ Then we heard someone 
again, outside the front door. 
‘Let’s go without the money,’ my mother said. 
I took an envelope from the captain’s box. ‘I’m going to take 
this,’ I said. 
We left the inn very quietly through the back door. We heard 
men running along the road to the inn. 
We  stopped  behind  some  trees  and  watched  the  men.  There 
were seven or eight of them, all pirates. They broke down the 
door of the inn and ran inside. 
‘Bill’s dead!’ someone said. 
‘Open his box!’ a second man said. 
‘The money’s here!’ 
‘Flint’s map! Where’s Flint’s map?’ 
‘We can’t find it!’ 
‘It’s not here!’ 
‘It’s those people at the inn - it’s that boy! The boy’s got the 
map. Find them, boys!’ 
The men moved quickly. They looked into every room in the 
inn. 
‘Listen!’ one of them said. ‘Someone’s coming! We must run!’ 
‘No, find the boy! He’s near here somewhere, I know.’ 
Then I heard a gun. The pirates heard it too, and began to run 
 
6  
 
 
We stopped behind some trees and watched the men. away. We waited for a minute or two and then we went back to 
the inn. 
‘What did the pirates want?’ a man from the village asked me. 
‘Did they find the captain’s money?’ 
‘Yes,’ I said. ‘But I think they wanted this.’ I showed him the 
envelope. ‘I think there’s a map inside it.’ 
‘You must take it to Mr Trelawney,’ he told me. 
♦ 
 
When I arrived at Mr Trelawney’s house, Dr Livesey was there. 
‘Hello Jim, what is it?’ he asked. 
I told him about the pirates. 
‘Let’s see that map,’ the doctor said. ‘But first, Mr Trelawney, 
what do you know about Captain Flint?’ 
‘Flint?’ said Mr Trelawney. ‘He was a famous pirate and a very 
bad man. Everybody was afraid of Captain Flint. But he’s dead 
now.’ 
‘Did he have any money?’ asked the doctor. 
‘Money!’ said Mr Trelawney. ‘He was the richest pirate in the 
West Indies.’ 
‘Then perhaps this map shows where Captain Flint’s treasure 
is,’ said the doctor. 
‘What?’ said Mr Trelawney. ‘Then I must buy a ship and we 
can all go and look for the treasure.’ 
The doctor opened the map very carefully. It was a map of an 
island.  There  was  some  writing  on  the  map.  It  said:  ‘Treasure 
here’. 
Mr Trelawney and the doctor were excited. ‘Livesey!’ said Mr 
Trelawney. ‘Tomorrow I’m going to Bristol. I’m going to buy a 
ship and find sailors. Jim, you and Dr Livesey are going to come 
with me to look for the treasure!’ 
 
♦ 
8  
Treasure Island 1750 
 
 
The next day Mr Trelawney left for Bristol. I stayed at home and 
waited. At last, weeks later, Dr Livesey got a letter from Bristol. 
 
Dear Livesey, 
The ship is ready. Its name is Hispaniola. I found a good man to be 
our cook on the ship. He’s an old sailor and he has an inn here in 
Bristol. He is going to help me find sailors for our ship. He knows a lot 
of men here. His name is Long John Silver. He has only one leg. 
Please send Jim Hawkins to Bristol tomorrow.                                   
Trelawney. 
 
I  was  very  excited.  The  next  morning  I  said  goodbye  to  my 
mother and started for Bristol. Mr Trelawney met me there. 
‘When do we sail?’ I asked him. 
‘Sail?’ he said. ‘We sail tomorrow!’ 
I had something to eat, then Mr Trelawney gave me a letter for 
Long John Silver at the Spy Glass Inn. 
 
9 There were a lot of sailors in the Spy Glass Inn. I looked round 
and saw a tall strong man with one leg. ‘He’s Long John Silver,’ I 
thought. 
‘Mr Silver, sir?’ I asked. 
‘Yes, that’s my name. And who are you?’ 
I gave him the letter and he took my hand. Suddenly, one of the 
other men in the inn jumped up and ran to the door. I knew him. It 
was Black Dog! 
‘Stop him!’ I said. ‘Stop him! It’s Black Dog!’ ‘Harry,’ said 
Silver, ‘run and catch that man.’ A man got up and ran after Black 
Dog. 
Long John Silver turned to me. “Who was that man?’ he asked. 
‘Black what?’ 
‘Dog, sir,’ I said. ‘He’s a pirate.’ 
‘A pirate!’ said Silver. ‘Ben, run and help Harry. You can catch 
him!’ 
But Ben and Harry came back without Black Dog. ‘We lost 
him,’ they said. 
‘Well, what is Mr Trelawney going to think?’ said Silver. ‘You 
know, Jim, we did try to catch him. And nobody in the inn knew 
that  he  was  the  pirate  Black  Dog.  Now,  Jim,  come  with  me. 
We’re going to see Mr Trelawney.’ 
Long John Silver walked with me to meet Mr Trelawney and 
Dr Livesey. He told them about Black Dog. 
Mr Trelawney listened carefully, and then said, ‘Well, we can’t 
do anything about Black Dog now. John, tell all the men to come 
to the ship this afternoon.’ 
The doctor turned to me. ‘Come and see the ship, Jim,’ he said. 
And meet our captain, Captain Smollett.’ 
So we went to the Hispaniola. ‘Well, Captain Smollett,’ said 
Mr Trelawney, ‘I hope everything is ready.’ 
‘Well, sir,’ said the captain, ‘it is, but I’m not happy about it. I 
don’t like the sailors.’ 
 
 
10  
 
 
Long John Silver turned to me. ‘Who was that man?’ he       
asked. ‘Black what?’ ‘Oh?’ said Mr Trelawney. He was very angry with the captain. 
But  Dr  Livesey  said,  ‘Tell  me,  Captain  Smollett.  Why  are  you 
unhappy?     
‘Well,’ said the captain, I don’t know where we are going. But 
all the sailors say we are going to look for treasure. I don’t like 
it. I don’t know these men.’ 
‘Well, what do you want?’ asked the doctor. 
‘We  must  have  all  the  guns  in  our  rooms,  sir.  And  Mr 
Trelawney’s men must sleep near us, not with the other sailors.’ 
‘And?’ said Mr Trelawney. 
‘You have a map. The sailors know about it. Nobody must see 
that map.’     
‘Right, sir,’ said Mr Trelawney. ‘We can do that. But I think 
they’re very good men.’ 
‘Trelawney,’ said the doctor later, ‘you have two good men, 
Captain Smollett and Long John Silver.’ 
‘I don’t know about the captain,’ said Mr Trelawney angrily. 
Then Captain Smollett found me. ‘And you, boy, go and help 
the cook!’ 
♦ 
 
We worked all night and in the morning, the ship left Bristol. 
The Hispaniola was a good ship and we had good weather. The 
sailors all liked Long John Silver. In the old days, before he lost his 
leg, he was a good fighter,’ some of them said. He was always very 
good to me. 
Mr  Trelawney  liked  to  give  the  sailors  things  to  make  them 
happy. There was always a big barrel of fruit for them. 
One night, after I finished my work on the ship, I went to get 
some fruit from the barrel. Everything was very quiet. I climbed 
inside the barrel to get the fruit. Suddenly a heavy man sat down 
next to the barrel. He began to speak. It was Long John Silver. I 
stayed very quiet. 
 
12 ‘Yes,’ he said. ‘Flint was our captain. I sailed with him many 
times. We had one big fight. I lost my leg and Old Pew lost his 
eyes. I saw a lot of fighting and a lot of treasure, too.’ 
‘Ah,’ said a younger man. ‘Flint was a bad man! And where are 
all Flint’s men now?’ 
‘Most of them are here,’ said Silver quietly, ‘on this ship. Old 
Pew’s dead. And you, young man, do you want to help us? Do 
you want to be a pirate?’ 
‘Yes I do.’     
‘Good,’ said Silver. ‘You’re going to be a good pirate.’ 
Then a second man spoke to Long John Silver. It was Israel 
Hands. 
‘I don’t like our captain, John,’ he said. ‘Let’s kill Smollett and 
the others.’ 
‘No. We must wait. We must have Captain Smollett to sail the 
ship,’  said  Silver.  ‘And  Mr  Trelawney  and  the  doctor  have  the 
map. Let them find the treasure first. Then we can kill them. Now 
get me some fruit from this barrel.’ 
I was very afraid. But then someone said, ‘Land!’ 
♦ 
 
Everybody ran to see the island. I waited for a minute, then I 
climbed out of the barrel and ran, too. The ship was now quite 
near an island. 
‘Does anybody know this island?’ Captain Smollett asked. 
‘I do,’ said Silver. ‘There were a lot of pirates here in the old 
days. That hill in the centre of the island is called the Spy Glass.’ 
Then  Captain  Smollett  showed  Silver  a  map  of  the  island. 
Silver  looked  at  the  map  very  carefully,  but  it  was  not  Billy 
Bones’s map. It did not show the treasure. 
I went to Dr Livesey. ‘Can I speak to you please, doctor?’ I 
said. 
‘What is it, Jim?’ he asked. 
13 Then  I  told  the  doctor,  Mr  Trelawney  and  Captain  Smollett 
about Long John Silver. ‘Most of the sailors are pirates,’ I said. 
‘They want to kill us and take the treasure.’ 
‘Thank you, Jim,’ said Mr Trelawney. ‘And Captain Smollett, 
you were right. I was wrong. I’m sorry.’ 
‘Silver is a very clever man,’ said the doctor. We all liked him.’ 
‘What are we going to do, captain?’ asked Mr Trelawney. 
♦ 
 
The next morning we arrived at the island. I remembered Billy 
Bones’s map. ‘I know there’s a house on the island,’ I thought. 
‘But I can’t see it from here.’ 
The sailors wanted to leave the ship, but Captain Smollett said, 
‘Tell the men they can go to the island this afternoon.’ 
‘What are we going to do?’ asked Mr Trelawney. ‘We must 
think quickly.’ 
Three of the men on the ship, Hunter, Joyce and Redruth, were 
Mr Trelawney’s men. He told them about Long John Silver and 
the pirates and he gave them some guns. Then he spoke to the 
other men, the pirates. 
‘Men,’ he said, ‘it’s a hot day and we’re all tired. Take a boat 
and go to the island. You can come back this evening.’ 
The pirates were happier. Six of them stayed on the Hispaniola 
and thirteen got into the small boats to go to the island. I quietly 
got into one of the boats, too. 
We arrived on the beach and I ran away from the pirates. Long 
John Silver saw me. ‘Jim! Jim!’ he said. ‘Come here!’ But I did 
not listen to him. I ran into the trees. 
I  walked  about  for  a  time,  then  I  heard  the  pirates  talking 
angrily. There was some fighting, and one man died. 
‘He didn’t want to help them, so they killed him,’ I thought, 
‘They’re bad men.’ 
 
‘ 
14  
‘I know there’s a house on the island,’ I thought. ‘But I can’t 
see it from here.’ I ran and ran. ‘How can I get back to the ship?’ I thought. ‘The 
pirates are going to kill me, too.’   
I  climbed  the  hill.  Suddenly  I  saw  a  man.  Who’s  this?’  I 
thought. ‘He isn’t one of our men. Nobody lives on this island.’ 
I began to run back to the beach, but I was tired and the man 
ran very quickly. I stopped and took out my gun. 
The  man  carefully  came  out  of  the  trees.  ‘Who  are  you?’  I 
asked. 
‘I’m Ben Gunn,’ he said. ‘I live here. The pirates left me on this 
island three years ago. What’s your name?’ 
‘Jim,’ I told him. 
‘Well, Jim,’ he said, ‘I’m a very rich man. But tell me, who 
came in that ship? Is it Flint’s ship?’ 
‘No, it isn’t. Flint is dead,’ I said. ‘But some of his men are on 
the ship.’ 
‘Not. . . not a man with one leg?’ 
‘Silver?’ I asked. 
‘Yes, Silver,’ he said. ‘Are you a friend of his?’ 
‘No, I’m not,’ I answered. And I told him everything. 
‘Is Mr Trelawney a good man?’ Ben asked. ‘Perhaps I can help 
him.’ 
‘Yes,  he’s  very  good.  And  I  think  he  can  help  you,  too.’ 
‘Good,’ said Ben Gunn. 
‘But can you help me now?’ I asked. ‘I must get back to the 
ship.’ 
‘I’ve got a little boat,’ he said. ‘You can use it tonight.’ 
Suddenly  we  heard  the  sound  of  guns.  ‘Listen!  they’re 
fighting!’ I said. 
We  ran  to  the  beach.  We  heard  more  guns,  then  everything 
was quiet and a flag went up above the trees. 
 
 
16  
 
 
‘I’m Ben Gunn,’ he said. ‘I live here.’ Chapter 2    Dr Livesey’s Story 
 
At half-past one in the afternoon two small boats went from the 
ship to the island. We looked for Jim Hawkins on the Hispaniola, 
but he was not there. 
We waited on the ship. There were six pirates with us. Then 
Hunter and I took a boat and went to the island. I wanted to see 
the house on the island. 
The house was strong and it was in a good place. ‘We can stay 
here,’ I thought. ‘There’s water, and we can bring food and guns 
from the ship.’ 
Then I heard the pirates fighting in the trees. ‘They’re killing 
someone,’ I thought. ‘Perhaps Jim Hawkins is dead.’ 
Hunter and I went back to the Hispaniola. I told the captain 
about the house, and we started to put food into the small boat. 
The pirates on the ship did not hear us. 
Joyce and I carried the food from the beach to the house. Joyce 
stayed in the house with his gun and I went back to the ship. We 
put more food and our guns into the small boat and dropped all 
the other guns into the sea. Then Mr Trelawney’s men Redruth 
and Hunter, Mr Trelawney, the captain and I left the ship. There 
were five of us in a small boat and we moved very slowly. 
Then we saw the pirates on the Hispaniola. They had the big 
gun on the ship. 
‘They’re going to shoot at us,’ somebody said. 
We tried to go faster. Mr Trelawney shot at the men on the ship. 
He hit one of them. 
Then the pirates on the island ran out of the trees. They began 
to run along the beach. 
 
 
 
 
18  
 
 
‘There were Jive of us in a small boat and we moved very slowly.’  
Captain Smollett said sadly, ‘Now there are only five of us
 
and we have food for ten days. What are we going to do?’
 ‘Quickly!’ said the captain. ‘They’re going to catch us. Leave 
the boat.’ 
We heard the big gun on the Hispaniola behind us; we jumped 
on to the beach and ran. Most of our food and our guns went 
down into the sea with the small boat. 
We heard the pirates running along the beach behind us, but we 
ran quickly through the trees to the house. We arrived at the house 
and turned to shoot at the pirates. 
We hit one of the pirates, and the other men ran away. Then one 
of the pirates turned and shot Redruth through the head. 
Captain Smollett said sadly: ‘Now there are only five of us and 
we have food for ten days. What are we going to do?’ 
Suddenly we heard somebody outside. ‘Dr Livesey,’ said Jim 
Hawkins, ‘it’s me, Jim. I’m here.’ 
So then there were six of us. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21 Chapter 3   Jim’s Story II 
 
 
‘Your friends are in the house now,’ said Ben Gunn. 
‘I must go  to   them,’   I  said.  ‘Are  you   coming  with me? 
‘No,’  said  Ben.  ‘But  you  know  where  to  find  me.  Come 
tomorrow afternoon.’ 
I looked at the Hispaniola, out on the sea, and saw the pirates’ 
flag. ‘They have the ship now,’ I thought. 
The pirates on the beach made a big fire. They started to drink 
and to talk loudly. I waited for a time, then went to the house. I 
told  Dr  Livesey  about  my  meeting  with  Ben  Gunn  up  on  the 
hill.   
‘Tell me about this man,’ said the doctor. ‘Is he going to help 
us?’ 
‘Yes, I think he is,’ I said. 
‘There are fifteen pirates now,’ said the doctor. ‘And there are 
six of us. Seven, with Ben Gunn.’ 
I was very tired and I slept well that night. The next morning 
one of our men said: ‘Look! Someone’s coming! A man with a 
white flag.’ 
‘Don’t shoot!’ said the man. ‘It’s me. John Silver.’ ‘What do 
you want?’ asked Captain Smollett. ‘Captain Silver wants to talk 
to you,’ said Long John. ‘Captain Silver now? Come on, then,’ 
said Captain Smollett. Long John came slowly up the hill to the 
house. We all watched him. 
‘Yes?’ asked the captain. 
One of our men is dead,’ said Silver. ‘You killed him in the 
night.’ 
The captain said nothing. 
 
 
 
22  
'Captain Silver wants to talk to you,' said Long John. 
 
 
‘We  didn’t  kill  that  man,’  I  thought.  ‘Ben  Gunn  killed  him. 
Now there are only fourteen pirates.’ 
‘We want that treasure,’ Silver said. ‘And you’ve got a map, 
right?’ 
‘Perhaps,’ said the captain. 
‘I know you’ve got it,’ said Silver. ‘Give us the map. Then you 
can leave the island with us, or, if you like, you can stay here.’ 
‘Is that all?’ asked Captain Smollett. ‘Now, listen to me, Silver. 
You can’t find the treasure and you can’t sail the ship. We aren’t 
going to help you find the treasure, so you can go now. I have 
nothing more to say to you.’ 
‘Then  we’re  going  to  fight  you,’  said  Silver  angrily,  and  he 
went away, walking slowly down the hill. 
 
 
 
23 It was a hot day. We waited for a long time and then the pirates 
started shooting again. Suddenly some of the pirates ran out of the 
trees up to the house. 
‘Get  them!’  said  the  captain.  We  all  fought  hard.  We  killed 
three of the pirates and the others ran away. But when we got 
back inside the house we found that Joyce was dead. Hunter and 
the captain were hurt, too. 
‘Five pirates are dead,’ said the doctor. 
‘Good,’ said the captain. ‘Now they have nine men and we have 
five.’ 
♦ 
 
The pirates went back to the beach. Everything was quiet. Later 
that day Hunter died. 
The doctor left the house. ‘He’s going to meet Ben Gunn,’ I 
thought.  It  was  very  hot  inside  the  house  and  I  did  not  like 
waiting. So I took some food and a gun and went to look for Ben 
Gunn’s boat. 
After about an hour I found it. It was very small and light. ‘I 
can take this boat and go out to the Hispaniola at night,’ I 
thought. 
I sat down and waited. Night came, and it was very dark. The 
pirates had a big fire on the beach, and there was a small light on 
the Hispaniola. Very quietly, I put Ben Gunn’s boat into the sea. 
The boat moved slowly and quietly across the water. Soon I was 
near the ship. Nobody saw me. 
‘I can cut the ship’s rope with my knife,’ I thought. ‘And then 
the wind can push the ship away from the beach.’ 
I listened. There were two men on the ship. The other pirates 
were all on the beach. The men on the ship were talking loudly 
and angrily. ‘They’re going to have a fight,’ I thought. One of the 
men was Israel Hands. 
I waited, then I cut the rope. Slowly the ship turned round and 
 
24  
 
 
 
‘I can cut the ship’s rope with my knife,’ I thought. began  to  move  away  from  the beach.  The two men on the ship 
started to fight. The pirates on the beach sat round their fire and 
sang. They did not see the ship moving away. I sat down in Ben 
Gunn’s boat and fell asleep. 
In the morning I sat up and looked around. The little boat was 
not  far  from  the  island  and  I  saw  that  I  was  quite  near  the 
Hispaniola. I looked for Israel Hands and the other pirate, but I 
did  not  see  them.  I  moved  slowly  nearer  and  nearer  to  the 
Hispaniola. Then I climbed on to the ship. 
The two pirates were there, on the ship. They did not move. 
One  of  them  was dead.  Israel Hand’s leg was badly hurt, but he 
was not dead. 
I  looked  round  the  ship.  All  the  cupboards  were  open,  and 
everything was dirty. There were a lot of bottles on the floor. 
I found some drink and gave it to Hands. Then I took down the 
pirates’ flag. ‘The ship is ours, now,’ I thought. 
Israel Hands spoke. ‘You can’t sail the ship, Jim Hawkins,’ he 
said. ‘Give me some food. I can help you.’ 
‘I don’t want to go back to the beach,’ I said. ‘Help me to sail it 
to the North Inlet.’ 
‘Right,’ he said. 
So we sailed to the north of the island. The ship moved quietly 
through  the  water;  I  was  happy.  The  old  pirate  watched  me 
carefully. 
Then  he  smiled.  ‘Jim,  go  and  get  me  .  .  .  er  .  .  .  get  me 
something to drink,’ he said. ‘I’m thirsty.’ 
I did not like his smile. I went away, but I came back very 
quietly and watched him. He moved slowly and took a knife from 
behind some rope. Then he put the knife under his jacket and he 
went back to his old place. 
Ah,’ I thought. ‘He can move and he’s got a knife. He wants to 
kill me. I must be careful.’ 
I  went back  to  him and gave him the bottle.  We sailed on and 
 
26  
 
So we sailed to the north of the island. The ship moved                  
quietly through the waters; I was happy. 
 
 
came  to  the  North  Inlet.  Hands  told  me  what  to  do  and  I 
brought the ship near the beach. I watched the sails and the sea, 
but I did not watch Hands. Suddenly I turned and saw him behind 
me with his knife in his hand. I jumped away and took out my 
gun. I tried to shoot at Hands but nothing happened. The gun was 
wet with sea water. 
I moved away quickly, but Hands followed me. I climbed up 
among  the  sails  and tried to shoot again.  Hands looked up, then 
he threw his knife at me. It went into my arm. Then I shot him 
and he dropped into the sea. 
The pirate’s knife was in my arm. I pulled it out and climbed 
down on to the ship. 
 
 
27 It  was  now  evening.  ‘I  must  go  back  to  the  house  now,’  I 
thought.  ‘They’re  going  to  be  angry  with  me,  but  I’ve  got  the 
ship.’ 
So I left the ship and went happily back through the trees. I saw 
the house, and a big fire next to it. I moved on quietly through the 
trees  and  went  into  the  house.  It  was  dark  and  very  quiet. 
‘Everyone is sleeping,’ I thought. 
Then  somebody  spoke.  ‘Who’s there?’  he said.  It  was Long 
John Silver. 
♦ 
 
Somebody brought a light. There were six pirates in the room. 
The other pirates were all dead. 
‘So here’s Jim,’ said Long John Silver. ‘Here to visit us. That’s 
very nice ...’ 
I said nothing. 
‘So now you want to be a pirate, Jim,’ Silver said. ‘The captain 
and the doctor are angry with you, I know.’ 
‘What’s happening?’ I asked. 
‘Well, Jim,’ said Silver. ‘The ship’s far away. Your friends left 
the house yesterday, and we’re here now. And you, Jim, are you 
going to stay with us?’ 
‘Let’s kill him,’ said one of the other pirates. 
‘No,’ said Silver. ‘I’m the captain. And I like this boy.’ 
The other men were angry with Silver. They went away to talk 
about it together. 
‘I want to help you, Jim,’ said Silver quietly to me. ‘But you 
must help me, too.’ 
At  last  the  other  pirates  came  back.  They  gave  Silver  some 
paper. It was black. 
‘You aren’t our captain  now, John  Silver,’   one  of the pirates 
said. ‘We don’t want you. And we don’t want that boy.’ 
 
28  
 
 
 
‘So here’s Jim. Here to visit us. That’s very nice . . .’ ‘Well,’ said Silver. ‘I have something you want. Look! And he 
showed them Mr Trelawney’s treasure map. ‘The doctor gave me 
this!’ he said. 
The pirates were very excited and they all looked at the map.   
‘Good old Silver!’ they said. ‘Good old Captain Silver!’ 
 
♦ 
 
The    next    morning    the    doctor    came    to    the    house.                      
‘Good  morning, doctor,’  said Long John.  ‘Look who’s  here!’ 
‘Jim!’ said the doctor. ‘I want to talk to you. But first I must 
look at these men.’ 
‘Now I want to talk to Jim,’ said the doctor after a few minutes. 
‘No, you can’t,’ said one pirate. 
But Silver said, ‘Yes, he can. You can speak to the boy, doctor.’ 
The doctor turned to me. ‘Why are you with the pirates, Jim?’ 
he asked sadly. 
‘It was a mistake,’ I said. ‘They caught me here last night. But 
doctor, I’ve got the ship. It’s in the North Inlet.’ 
‘The ship!’ said the doctor. 
I told him my story. 
‘Good boy!’ he said. Then he turned to Silver. ‘Silver! Look 
after  this  boy.  Perhaps  I  can  help  you  later.  Goodbye,  Jim.’      
And the doctor left us. 
♦ 
 
‘And  now,  Jim,’    said  Silver,  ‘we’re  going  to  look  for  the 
treasure.’ 
The  pirates  thought  about  the  treasure  and  they  were  happy. 
They ate their breakfast quickly and we all started to walk along 
the beach. 
‘We must go this way, and look for a tall tree,’ said Silver. 
 
30 There were a lot of tall trees on the island and the pirates ran to 
look at all of them. 
Then one of the pirates said, ‘Here!’ Near a tree was a dead 
man. 
‘He was a sailor,’ said one of the pirates. ‘Look at his jacket! 
But what’s he doing here? When did he die?’ 
‘Flint killed him years ago,’ said Silver. ‘He’s showing us the 
way to the treasure. Follow his arm. Come on! This way.’ 
The pirates followed quietly. They were afraid. We climbed a 
hill, then we sat down. 
Suddenly we heard singing. ‘It’s Flint!’ said one man, his face 
very white. ‘No,’ said Silver. ‘Not Flint. Flint’s dead. Remember 
the treasure, my boys, and don’t be afraid!’ But all the pirates had 
white faces. 
Silver listened carefully to the singing. ‘That’s not Flint!’ he 
said.  ‘It’s . . . it’s  Ben  Gunn!  We’re  not  afraid  of  Ben Gunn!’ 
The singing stopped  and  we  moved  on.  After twenty minutes 
we  saw  a very big tree on top of a hill. The pirates started to run. 
But they did not find any treasure.  Under  the  tree  they  found 
an old box. There was nothing in it. Flint’s treasure was not there. 
For a long time the six pirates sat and said nothing. Then Silver 
turned to me. ‘Be very careful, Jim,’ he said quietly. ‘These men 
are dangerous.’ He gave me a gun. 
The pirates looked at us and we looked back at them. Suddenly, 
from the trees, guns started to shoot. Two of the pirates dropped 
to the ground and the other three ran away. 
The doctor and Ben Gunn ran out of the trees and started to run 
after the pirates. ‘They can’t get away,’ said Silver. ‘And you, 
Ben Gunn, what are you doing here?’ 
The doctor and Ben told us Ben’s story. ‘Ben found the treasure 
a long time ago,’ said the doctor. ‘He moved it to his 
 
 
 
31  
 
 
 
I had a good dinner that night with all my friends. home on the island. So I gave the pirates Flint’s map and we 
left the house and went to stay with Ben.’ 
We took one of the pirate’s boats, and broke the other. ‘The 
pirates  haven’t  got  a  boat  now,’  said  the  doctor.  ‘They  can’t 
follow us.’ 
Then we went round the island to find the Hispaniola. At last 
we found our ship and met Mr Trelawney and Captain Smollett. 
‘What are you doing here, John Silver?’ asked the captain. 
‘I’m here to help you,’ said Silver. 
‘Ah,’ said the captain. 
I had a good dinner that night with all my friends. We were all 
happy. Silver ate and drank and smiled and laughed too. 
 
♦ 
 
The next morning we started to carry the treasure to the ship. 
We did not see the three pirates on the island. Three days later, we 
finished our work. We heard the pirates singing loudly, but we did 
not see them. 
We left some boxes of food for the pirates, and started across 
the  sea  to  the  nearest  town.  We  were  happy  when  we  arrived 
there. And there Silver left us. We were in the town and he got 
away. He took some of the treasure with him, too. 
And so, after some weeks at sea, we arrived home with our 
treasure. I never wanted to go back to that island again. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
33 ACTIVITIES 
Chapter 1 
Before you read 
1 All these words come in this part of the story. Do you understand 
   them? 
barrel   captain   flag   hill   inn   island 
pirates   sail  sailor  treasure 
 
Give each word the right meaning: 
a    some land with sea all round it 
b    a worker on a boat or ship 
c    the most important person on a ship 
d    used to put wine or other drinks in 
e    a ship does this when the wind moves it across the sea 
f    a small hotel with a bar 
g   a small mountain 
h   every country flies one of these 
i    these bad seamen fight other ships 
j    money etc, often in a box under the ground 
2  Look at the pictures in this book. When do you think the story 
    happened? 
a   in the 1700s 
b   in the last 20 years 
c   in the 1900s 
3  Which of these words do you think will come in the story? 
    beach   bicycle   cinema   gun   knife 
map   radio   sea   supermarket   taxi 
After you read 
4  What did they do? 
a   Ben Gunn  lost one of his legs in a fight. 
b   Black Dog  brought the treasure to the island. 
c   Jim Hawkins  lived on an island for three years. 
d   Mr Trelawney  lost some fingers on his left hand. 
e   Captain Flint  lived in an inn with his mother. 
f   Long John Silver  bought the Hispaniola. 
 
35 5  Answer these questions. 
a   A captain stays at the inn. What is his name? 
b   Who is he most afraid of? 
c   What thing in his box do the pirates want most? 
d   Why don’t they find it? 
6  Answer these questions. 
a   When Jim is inside the barrel, he learns something very important  
about     Silver and some other sailors. What is it? 
b   What happens when Silver wants to have some fruit from the barrel? 
 
Chapter 2 
 
Before you read 
 
7  Put the best word in these sentences. 
a    hit   kick   shoot 
He has a gun and he can..................well. 
b   fell  dropped   threw 
Is this your handkerchief? I think you.................it. 
8  Look at the picture on page 20. 
Are these men pirates or friends of the captain? 
What do you think happened to the man on the ground? 
 
After you read 
 
9  The five men leave the ship and go to the island. 
a   Then where do they go? 
b   Why do they move very quickly? 
 
Chapter 3 
 
Before you read 
 
10   Which picture shows Jim cutting a rope? 
11  Finish the sentence with the best word:                                                                 
pushed   hurt   ill 
        In the fight three people died and two were……                                                       
12    Do you think that Jim and his friends will live or die? 
   
 
36 Do you think that they will find the treasure?                                                           
Talk about these things with another student. 
 
After you read 
 
13   Answer these questions. 
a  Who kills one of the pirates in the night? 
b  Where does Israel Hands help Jim to sail the ship to? 
c   What is wrong with Jim’s gun when he tries to use it? 
14    How many pirates are still living at the end of the story? What 
        happens to them? 
Writing 
 
15  Who do you like best in the story? Write three or four sentences about   
him. 
16  The police are looking for Long John Silver. How will they know 
him?      Write some things about him to help the police. 
17  Look at the picture on page 17. Ben Gunn looks different from the  
other people in the story. How is he different? 
18  Something dangerous happens to most of the people in this book. Did  
anything dangerous happen to you in your life? Write about it. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Answers for the Activities in this book are published in our free resource packs for 
teachers, the Penguin Readers Factsheets, or available on a separate sheet. Please write to 
your  local  Pearson  Education  office  or  to:  Marketing  Department,  Penguin 
Longman Publishing, 5 Bentinck Street, London W1M5RN. 
 
 
 